well here's another something you can do
a scrap clay this is obviously mixed
together scrapped clay I put it through
the pasta machine just to several times
to get it all nice and conditioned and
ready to work with and one time through
the pasta machine isn't going to be
thick enough and you don't need the
pasta machine at all for this actually
just take your clay and condition it by
squishing it together and warming it up
getting it ready to work with and then
these are hard clay these are really old
ones so and you could see I didn't use
and then you use multiple colors of clay
or my scrap clay I used my good clay at
the time because I was new to it and mmm
not thinking straight so now that I have
spare clay I'm gonna use it take your
spare clay make sure it's all nice and
smooth from um you know from mixing it
all together you don't want big wrinkles
in it and one of the best things to do
is to make it into a ball and then
slightly squish it and I'm gonna use
rubber stamps for this effect and I'm
look at the bottom on my stamp here I'm
looking at this one and I can see there
are some leaves in there and these would
provide excellent texture for clay
leaves that I make um you know for later
so I'm going to just I'm not gonna worry
about the entire thing but I'd like
these two leaves if possible and that's
not gonna be quite big enough so I'm
gonna go ahead and flatten it a little
more because you really don't need too
much and that bad that'll work so take
it squish it down really well rock it
back and forth nothin right forward and
back but don't pick it up until you're
done and then um and I don't know if you
can see how good that worked or not but
it really worked well I'm gonna
carefully get my slicer and look at that
take this bake it and then once you bake
it you'll have that you know have a
permanent mold for any other leaves you
make in the future and this one I have a
really big bunch of different leaves and
that's what this one is and this others
out of the way and I'm gonna use some
green real quick I know it's not really
leaf green but it'll work okay Oh
Catherine that's looking really good so
let's say you want to make a little leaf
you you're clay that you're going to use
is gonna be you're gonna have like a I'm
gonna make your leaf on there that say
will make this leave like that and then
I have a little leaf and now I would go
back probably with my little razor blade
now I have a glass table top not on my
good table top and you can take your
time and cut it out before you bake it
or anything and anyway you make your own
you make your own molds whatever you
want anyway um I have leaves and
snowflakes make a little snowflakes then
you can make all kinds of stuff from
that and let's see where's my other bead
I wanted to make a I found this really
cool button at the thrift store
and I want to make a bowl out of it um
can you see that oh there we go okay I
can see hmm
and I want to make this as a bottom of a
bowl and this is great cuz they even has
a handle on it for me flip this over
here's money oh wait here's my scrap
clay remember always use your scrap clay
if you can't don't throw away your scrap
clay you'll end up with some this is one
thing it's really good for I'm rolling
it into a nice little ball and then I
kind of put it in the soft part of my
hand like right in the center both my
hands and then kind of flatten it just a
little not much and then I'm gonna take
my bowl or my take money button and I'm
gonna squish it up on the sides
and put it in there to get the and yah I
would this is a metal button so I would
go ahead and bake it in there so that
way it wouldn't lose any detail or
anything then after you take it out and
you might have to pry on it a little bit
but then you're gonna have this
wonderful bowl and it has as you I don't
know if you can tell but it has every
little detail in there
there and get closer love it when it
works and has every single little detail
works perfectly the only disadvantage to
the working with hard clay rather than a
real mold maker like the amazing mold
maker clay that I have for them the
other one is the other one bins this one
does not Bend this one as solid its you
cannot bend it at all it won't budge
unless you break it so after this is
baked when you go to put let's pretend I
want a green bowl pretend that's baked
you'd put cornstarch in there just a
thin layer put the pour the cornstarch
in dump it out and then kind of blow on
just a little bit then you stick your
clay in there and you'll scoop out
that's a bowl so you'll scoop out what
you want for your bowl and then then
sometimes you can bake it and it'll work
but don't you don't want to do that for
something this big just part you don't
have to pry out your bowl and the baking
powder I mean no way the cornstarch
we will help really you can use it as a
release agent it'll bring it out you
might also try some mineral oil or clay
conditioning oil that would probably
pull it right out to bottom anyway lots
of fun it what a nice little thing I
know I'm most stuttering over this whole
video you can take this after member
this is baked hard you okay sweetie oh
that was looking good take it put it in
there scoop out what you want to scoop
put it in the freezer or put it in the
freezer for 30 minutes or refrigerator
or it may be 15 minutes in the freezer
and 30 minutes in the refrigerator and
then you know this clay the soft clay
will be very firm but of course not
cooked and then you take it out and then
you can go ahead and bake it and you'll
have yourself a nice little duplicate
bowl so try that for your sir clay um
I'm painting this and I made it for my
mom